---
title: "February 2025 Update"
date: "2025-02-09T10:51:26-05:00"
excerpt: "Our new illustrators, and new projects underway!"
image: "/images/news/georgia-panel-traced.webp"
featured: false
---

Dear All,

Happy February! While we often feel need to hibernate this time of
year, we at America’s Tapestry have shaken off those winter cobwebs,
rolled our sleeves up, and burned the midnight oil!

**What's New**

We have prepared our first panel for stitching. The design for the
Georgia Panel has been carefully laid out on a piece of 55” x 65” linen
ready for the hands of talented embroiderers.

The tracing of the design took about 8 hours and a very steady hand
with the aid of a prodigious light box. We look forward to seeing the
stitchers in action later this month at the [Atlanta History
Center](https://www.atlantahistorycenter.com/)!

![Traced Georgia panel](/images/news/images/georgia-panel-traced.webp)

A preliminary embroidery frame has been designed, featuring four 68”
wooden boards that interlock to adjustable dimensions. If you think
your state may benefit from this frame, please [get in
touch](/contact).

![Embroidery Frame](/images/news/images/embroidery-frame-1.webp)

![Embroidery Frame detail](/images/news/images/embroidery-frame-2.webp)

Be sure to check out the [talented illustrators](/team/illustrators/)
from across the country who are working on completing the illustrations
for America’s Tapestry.

**February Spotlight - New York**

This month we are returning to our Spotlight Series to showcase the
[New York Panel](/tapestries/new-york/). The design features the Birch
Trials, one of the lesser known events hosted by New York’s iconic
[Fraunces
Tavern](https://www.frauncestavernmuseum.org/birch-trials-at-fraunces-tavern).
Significant research undertaken by the Tavern (at which you can still
enjoy a pint or two) has uncovered this important story that resulted
in one of the largest emancipations of Black people prior to the Civil
War. The Birch Trials were established to determine claims formerly
enslaved individuals made about service to the British Crown during the
American Revolution.

![New York
panel](/images/tapestries/new-york/new-york-tapestry-main.webp)

In 1783, American and British Generals gathered at Fraunces Tavern to
hear and debate these cases, ultimately determining whether the
petitioner would be sent to Nova Scotia as a reward for their service
to King George III, or return to slavery in the United States if their
case was unclear or contested.

Within the design, a hearing is underway in the upper left hand corner.
A man advocates for his service and loyalty to Great Britain during the
Revolution--a speech which will ultimately determine his fate.

﻿In the panel’s center, we learn about the various roles undertaken by
enslaved people in the British Army--tradesmen, laborers, and soldiers
in Dunmore’s famous Ethiopian Regiment.

﻿The lower right hand corner depicts a family en route to their new
home in Nova Scotia as citizens of the British Crown.

The New York Panel is directed by [Jenni
Paperman](/team/state-directors/jennifer-paperman) and will be stitched
at the [Van Schaick Mansion](http://www.vanschaickmansion.org/) in
Albany by the Capitol District Chapter of the EGA alongside other
organizations. We are excited for them to get underway!

![Van Schaick Mansion, Albany
NY](/images/news/images/van-schaick-mansion.webp)

**What's Next?**

We are preparing the New Jersey & New York panels for stitching.

[Our illustrators](/team/illustrators) are busy at work designing the
New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Maryland, and Virginia
Panels. Stay tuned for some very exciting updates on their progress.

Think you may need an embroidery frame for your state’s panel? Reach
out and let’s find a solution.

**Attention--Stitchers Needed!**

That’s right--we are still seeking talented stitchers in the state of
**South Carolina**. Think you know the right person or organization?
Send them our info and invite them to join.

That's all for this month. Thanks for reading, and happy stitching!

﻿Best wishes,

Stefan
